# HelloWorld for the Rusty Coder : Introduction

(The title above should match the "Title" in the JSON file)

This DevNet learning lab helps the rusty coder download some modern commonly used tools and quickly write Hello World applications using them. A rusty coder is someone who coded in their past (say, over 5 years ago) and wants to get started again using the tools that are available today in a fast easy way. A rusty coder probably used Unix and Windows for their software development in the past and just need to quickly learn what's available today. This learning lab is designed for a Mac user.

## Objectives

The objective of this lab is to show the rusty coder how to:

* Find the terminal and command line tools on their Mac
* Install and use python
* Install and use postman
* Install and use github

## Prerequisites

You need a Mac with an internet connection.

## Step 1. Find the terminal on your Mac and play around in Unix

The Mac is a developers machine and the **Terminal** has lots of stuff built in for the rusty coder. Mac OS uses OS X which is built on Unix, so it already has many tools used by the rusty coder.

Let's open up your terminal and pin it to your dock, since you will be doing lots of coding.

* Open up your **Finder**. Click on **Applications**. Click on the **Utilities folder**. Click on **Terminal**
* Or, a faster way to bring up the **Terminal** from your keyboard is to press **command-spacebar** and type **Terminal**
* Pin it to your dock by ctrl-clicking on the icon in your dock, hitting **Options->Keep in dock**

Now play around in the terminal.
* **pwd** shows you what directory you're in. Hey look, you have a **/Users/username** folder!
* **ls** shows what's in your home directory. You will find your **Documents**, **Downloads**, **Desktop** and other familiar folders.
* **mkdir Code** Go ahead and create a folder for you to code in right there at the top level. You can do your coding in **/Users/username/Code**
* **emacs** or **vi** Use your favorite old school text editor.
* **ls /usr/bin** and **ls /usr/local/bin** Take a look at all the commands that are available at your finger tips.

Yes, it's all there. Is it all coming back to you now? Having fun?

Now let's get some stuff installed in **/usr/local/bin**.

## Step 2. Get started with Python.

Python is one of the fastest-growing programming languages. If you want to learn one language, I would recommend you start there. Some version of python is already installed on your Mac, but go ahead and download the latest from python.org.

* Go to [python.org](http://python.org) to download the latest version of python. Your executable will be **python3**.
* Type **python3** at your command line. You now have an execution environment for python.
* Type **>>> print("Hello World")**
* Type **>>> quit()** to exit.

Congratulations! You just made your first Hello World!

Now let's write and run a python script.

* Use your favorite text editor to create a file called **hellodevnet.py**
* **emacs hellodevnet.py**
* 
'''
print("Hello World")
print("Hello DevNet")
'''
* Type **ctrl-s ctrl-x** to save and exit.
* Type **python3 hellodevnet.py**


#### Next Step: Provide Title of the Next Step
